[WIP] - Initial commit from internal component (#1)
BedrockStreaming/RateLimitBundle: README.md

# RateLimitationBundle

> # Installation with composer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Install the bundle
```bash
composer require m6web/rate-limit-bundle
```

> ## Register the bundle

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

registering the bundle is part of its installation process (and may disappear if we add a recipe for symfony/flex someday)

> Update your _config/bundles.php_ to add the bundle for all env

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Update your _config/bundles.php_ file to add the bundle for all env
```

```php
<?php

return [
    ...
    M6Web\Bundle\RateLimitBundle\RateLimitBundle::class => ['all' => true],
    ...
];
```
 

> ## Configure your storage 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Configure your storage 
```

> You must to specify to Symfony wich storage implementation you want to use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must tell Symfony wich storage implementation you want to use.
```

Update your _config/services.yml_ like this

```yaml
    ...
    M6Web\Bundle\RateLimitBundle\Storage\RateLimitStorageInterface: '@M6Web\Bundle\RateLimitBundle\Storage\RateLimitInMemoryStorage'
    ...
``` 

> ## Configure your modifiers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Configure your modifiers
```

> To define your notifier, you need to add `rate_limit.modifiers` tag on `RateLimitModifierInterface` which you want to use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Modifiers are a way to customize the rate limit.

To define modifiers, just add the `rate_limit.modifiers` tag on the `RateLimitModifierInterface` services that you want to use
```

> This bundle provide 2 modifiers: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This bundle provides 2 modifiers: 
```

> * `HttpMethodRateLimitModifier` who limit request by `http_method`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `HttpMethodRateLimitModifier` limits the requests by `http_method`
```

> * `RequestAttributeRateLimitModifier` who limit request by using `$request->attributes` from Symfony. You can use it by defined attribute to used in `config/services.yml` file like the following example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `RequestAttributeRateLimitModifier` limits the requests by attributes value (taken from the `$request->attributes` Symfony's bag). 

If you want to use these modifiers, here's an example:
```

Update your _config/services.yml_ like this

```yaml
    ...
    M6Web\Bundle\RateLimitBundle\RateLimitModifier\HttpMethodRateLimitModifier:
        tags: [ 'rate_limit.modifiers' ]   

    M6Web\Bundle\RateLimitBundle\RateLimitModifier\RequestAttributeRateLimitModifier:
            arguments:

>                 $attributeName: 'uid'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                $attributeName: 'myRequestAttribute'
```

(uid doesn't mean anything to the outside world)

            tags: [ 'rate_limit.modifiers' ]
 
    ...
``` 

> ## Configure your route

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Configure your routes
```

> Add the `@RateLimit()` annotation to your routes. By default, the limit will be to 1000 requests / minute.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add the `@RateLimit()` annotation to your controller methods (by default, the limit will be 1000 requests per minute).
```

> You can update this rate limite with the annotation the following exemple to protect route with 10 requests / 2 minute.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This annotation accepts parameters to customize the rate limit.

The following example shows how to limit requests on a route at the rate of 10 requests max every 2 minute.
```

```php
/**
* @RateLimit(
*     limit=10,
*     period=120
* )
*/
```

> ## Create your own storage (optionnal)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> By default, only `RateLimitInMemory` is provided. But feel free to create your own by implemeting `RateLimitStorageInterface`

Reviewer: this line should move to the beginning of `### Configure your storage` section

> ## Create your own limit modifier (optionnal)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> By default, this bundle provide a uniq modifier by http_method. The http method is listened to limit access on the routes annotated by `@RateLimit` but you can create your own by implementing `RateLimitModifierInterface`

Reviewer: this line should move to the `### Configure your modifiers` section

> # RateLimitationBundle

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# RateLimitBundle
```

This bundle provides an easy way to protect your project by limiting access to your controllers.

## Install the bundle
```bash
composer require bedrock/rate-limit-bundle
```

Update your _config/bundles.php_ file to add the bundle for all env
```php
<?php

return [
    ...
    Bedrock\Bundle\RateLimitBundle\RateLimitBundle::class => ['all' => true],
    ...
];
```

### Configure the bundle
Add the _config/packages/bedrock_rate_limit.yaml_ file with the following data.
```yaml
bedrock_rate_limit:
    limit_by_route: true|false # false by default
    limit: 25 # 1000 requests by default
    period: 600 # 60 seconds by default
```
By default, the limitation is common to all routes annotated `@RateLimit()`. 
For example, if you keep the default configuration and you configure the `@RateLimit()` annotation in 2 routes. Users will be allowed to call 999 times the first route and only 1 time the second route.
If you swicth `limit_by_route` to true, users will be allowed to call 1000 times the first route and 1000 times the second route.
 
### Configure your storage 

> You must tell Symfony wich storage implementation you want to use.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You must tell Symfony which storage implementation you want to use.
```

    ...
``` 

By default, only `RateLimitInMemory` is provided. But feel free to create your own by implementing `RateLimitStorageInterface`

### Configure your modifiers
Modifiers are a way to customize the rate limit.

This bundle provides 2 modifiers: 
* `HttpMethodRateLimitModifier` limits the requests by `http_method`.
* `RequestAttributeRateLimitModifier` limits the requests by attributes value (taken from the `$request->attributes` Symfony's bag).

Update your _config/services.yml_ like this:

```yaml
    ...
    Bedrock\Bundle\RateLimitBundle\RateLimitModifier\HttpMethodRateLimitModifier:
        tags: [ 'rate_limit.modifiers' ]   

    Bedrock\Bundle\RateLimitBundle\RateLimitModifier\RequestAttributeRateLimitModifier:
            arguments:
                $attributeName: 'myRequestAttribute'
            tags: [ 'rate_limit.modifiers' ]
 
    ...
``` 

You can also create your own rate limit modifier by implementing `RateLimitModifierInterface` and tagging your service accordingly.

### Configure your routes
Add the `@RateLimit()` annotation to your controller methods (by default, the limit will be 1000 requests per minute).

> This annotation accepts parameters to customize the rate limit. The following example shows how to limit requests on a route at the rate of 10 requests max every 2 minute.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This annotation accepts parameters to customize the rate limit. The following example shows how to limit requests on a route at the rate of 10 requests max every 2 minutes.
```

# RateLimitationBundle

## Install the bundle
```bash
composer require m6web/rate-limit-bundle
```

Update your _config/bundles.php_ file to add the bundle for all env
```php
<?php

return [
    ...
    M6Web\Bundle\RateLimitBundle\RateLimitBundle::class => ['all' => true],
    ...
];
```

### Configure the bundle
Add the _config/packages/m6web_rate_limit.yaml_ file with the following data.
```yaml
m6web_rate_limit:
    limit_by_route: true|false # false by default

>     limit: 25 # 1000 by default

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    limit: 25 # 1000 requests by default
```

>     period: 600 # 60 by default

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    period: 600 # 60 seconds by default
```

```
By default, the limitation is common to all routes annotated `@RateLimit()`. 
For example, if you keep the default configuration and you configure the `@RateLimit()` annotation in 2 routes. Users will be allowed to call 999 times the first route and only 1 time the second route.
If you swicth `limit_by_route` to true, users will be allowed to call 1000 times the first route and 1000 times the second route.
 
### Configure your storage 

> You must tell to Symfony wich storage implementation you want to use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must tell Symfony wich storage implementation you want to use.
```

Update your _config/services.yml_ like this

```yaml
    ...
    M6Web\Bundle\RateLimitBundle\Storage\RateLimitStorageInterface: '@M6Web\Bundle\RateLimitBundle\Storage\RateLimitInMemoryStorage'
    ...
``` 

> By default, only `RateLimitInMemory` is provided. But feel free to create your own by implemeting `RateLimitStorageInterface`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, only `RateLimitInMemory` is provided. But feel free to create your own by implementing `RateLimitStorageInterface`
```

### Configure your modifiers
Modifiers are a way to customize the rate limit.

This bundle provides 2 modifiers: 
* `HttpMethodRateLimitModifier` limits the requests by `http_method`.
* `RequestAttributeRateLimitModifier` limits the requests by attributes value (taken from the `$request->attributes` Symfony's bag).

> Update your _config/services.yml_ like this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Update your _config/services.yml_ like this:
```

```yaml
    ...
    M6Web\Bundle\RateLimitBundle\RateLimitModifier\HttpMethodRateLimitModifier:
        tags: [ 'rate_limit.modifiers' ]   

    M6Web\Bundle\RateLimitBundle\RateLimitModifier\RequestAttributeRateLimitModifier:
            arguments:
                $attributeName: 'myRequestAttribute'
            tags: [ 'rate_limit.modifiers' ]
 
    ...
``` 

> By default, this bundle provide a uniq modifier by http_method. The http method is listened to limit access on the routes annotated by `@RateLimit` but you can create your own by implementing `RateLimitModifierInterface`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also create your own rate limit modifier by implementing `RateLimitModifierInterface` and tagging your service accordingly.
```

### Configure your routes
Add the `@RateLimit()` annotation to your controller methods (by default, the limit will be 1000 requests per minute).
This annotation accepts parameters to customize the rate limit. The following example shows how to limit requests on a route at the rate of 10 requests max every 2 minute.

> :warning: This customization only works if `limit_by_route` parameter to true

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:warning: This customization only works if the `limit_by_route` parameter is `true`
```

# RateLimitBundle
This bundle provides an easy way to protect your project by limiting access to your controllers.

## Install the bundle
```bash
composer require bedrock/rate-limit-bundle
```

Update your _config/bundles.php_ file to add the bundle for all env
```php
<?php

return [
    ...
    Bedrock\Bundle\RateLimitBundle\RateLimitBundle::class => ['all' => true],
    ...
];
```

### Configure the bundle
Add the _config/packages/bedrock_rate_limit.yaml_ file with the following data.
```yaml
bedrock_rate_limit:

>     limit_by_route: true|false # false by default
>     limit: 25 # 1000 requests by default
>     period: 600 # 60 seconds by default
>     display_headers: true|false # false by default

Reviewer 3: Alphabetic order or priority order :
```suggestion
    display_headers: true|false # false by default
    limit_by_route: true|false # false by default
    limit: 25 # 1000 requests by default
    period: 600 # 60 seconds by default
```

```suggestion
    limit: 25 # 1000 requests by default
    period: 600 # 60 seconds by default
    limit_by_route: true|false # false by default
    display_headers: true|false # false by default
```

```
By default, the limitation is common to all routes annotated `@RateLimit()`. 

> For example, if you keep the default configuration and you configure the `@RateLimit()` annotation in 2 routes. Users will be allowed to call 999 times the first route and only 1 time the second route.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For example, if you keep the default configuration and you configure the `@RateLimit()` annotation in 2 routes. Web Users could consume all authorized call on the first route, and the second route will be not authorized
```
/!\ franglais

Reviewer: > will be not authorized

will not be authorized

Reviewer 2: > call 

calls

Even if I think it was better explained on the original version

> For example, if you keep the default configuration and you configure the `@RateLimit()` annotation in 2 routes. Users will be allowed to call 999 times the first route and only 1 time the second route.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, if you keep the default configuration and you configure the `@RateLimit()` annotation in 2 routes:  users will be allowed to call 999 times the first route and only 1 time the second route.
```

If you swicth `limit_by_route` to true, users will be allowed to call 1000 times the first route and 1000 times the second route.

> If you switch `display_headers` to true, 3 headers will be added `x-rate-limit`, `x-rate-limit-hits`, `x-rate-limit-untils` to your responses. It's can be usefull to debug your limitations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you switch `display_headers` to true, 3 headers will be added `x-rate-limit`, `x-rate-limit-hits`, `x-rate-limit-untils` to your responses. This can be usefull to debug your limitations.
```

`display_headers` is used to display a verbose return if limit is reached.
 
### Configure your storage 
You must tell Symfony which storage implementation you want to use.

Update your _config/services.yml_ like this:

```yaml
    ...
    Bedrock\Bundle\RateLimitBundle\Storage\RateLimitStorageInterface: '@Bedrock\Bundle\RateLimitBundle\Storage\RateLimitInMemoryStorage'
    ...
``` 

By default, only `RateLimitInMemory` is provided. But feel free to create your own by implementing `RateLimitStorageInterface` or `ManuallyResetableRateLimitStorageInterface`.

> If your database have a TTL system (like DynamoDB), you can only implementing `RateLimitStorageInterface`. Otherwhise you must implementing `ManuallyResetableRateLimitStorageInterface` to manually delete rate limit in your database. 

Reviewer 4: redis is a better example

> If your database have a TTL system (like DynamoDB), you can only implementing `RateLimitStorageInterface`. Otherwhise you must implementing `ManuallyResetableRateLimitStorageInterface` to manually delete rate limit in your database. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If your database has a TTL system (like DynamoDB), you can implement only `RateLimitStorageInterface`. Otherwhise you must implement also `ManuallyResetableRateLimitStorageInterface` to manually delete rate limit in your database. 
```
